RHDEVDOCS-4476: key features in odo 3.0 (#51192)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/odo-new-commands-30.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * cli_reference/developer_cli_odo/understanding-odo.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="odo-new-commands-30_{context}"]

> = New commands in odo 3.0

Reviewer: I love the way the section is structured.
A suggestion: Can we change the title to make it feel like it belongs to the Understanding section? I find the emphasis on commands in the title a bit misleading. Just reading the title I thought it belonged to the CLI reference section. Also the section highlights the key features too though they are part of those commands.
How about Major highlights of odo 3.0?

`odo` 3.0 includes new commands to improve the developer experience, providing the same functionality as before, but in a faster and more efficient manner.

== odo init

The `odo init` command automatically analyzes your directory and, based on the project type, suggests an appropriate Devfile to use. It also provides a better interactive experience for configuring your Devfile according to your project requirement. With this feature, you can set the environment variables exported to your application and the ports exposed by it on the cluster.

== odo dev

> The `odo dev` command allows you to code, build, run, debug and test your applications on the cluster in a continuous workflow. It combines the `odo push` and `odo watch` commands from `odo` version 2 into a single command.

Reviewer: Nit: Serial comma after debug.

> The `odo dev` command allows you to code, build, run, debug, and test your applications on the cluster in a continuous workflow. It combines the `odo push` and `odo watch` commands from `odo` version 2 into a single command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `odo dev` command allows you to code, build, run, debug, and test your applications on the cluster in a continuous workflow. It combines the `odo push` and `odo watch` commands from `odo` v2 into a single command.
```

Continuous workflow:: `odo dev` is a non-terminating command that runs until you enter `Ctrl+C`. It continuously watches the directory for any changes (including the changes occurring in the Devfile) and automatically synchronizes them with the application running on the cluster.

> Manual trigger to apply local changes on the cluster:: By default, `odo dev` automatically detects any changes in the directory, and synchronizes with the application running on the cluster. However, it is possible to trigger manually by running the command with the `--no-watch` flag and pressing `p` to trigger the synchronization.

Reviewer: Nit: ...it is possible to trigger this manually...

Improved watch system:: The `odo dev` command continuously monitors the resources created to run the application on the cluster and ensures that the application always stays running.

Resource cleanup:: Before exiting, the `odo dev` command cleans up any resources that it created for running the application on the cluster.

Port forwarding to access the application:: The `odo dev` command uses port-forwarding for application access, making it much faster to access the application.

== odo add binding

The `odo add binding` command allows the application to connect to an Operator-backed service and replaces the `odo link` command.

> Interactive mode:: The `odo add binding` command improves the developer experience by providing an interactive mode that lists bindable service in all the namespaces, and providing a way to personalize related configuration.

Reviewer: s/service/services
s/ and providing a way to personalize/and the mechanism to personalize - ? Trying to avoid the repetition of - 'providing'

Ability to connect to a service in any namespace:: The `odo add binding` command allows the application to connect to any bindable service in any namespace, not just in the same namespace as the application.

Run from anywhere:: You can run the `odo add binding` command from anywhere and it does not require access to a Devfile to work. With this method, you can directly create the `ServiceBinding` resource on the cluster, or you can write the YAML to a file, or display it on the command line.

> Work without a running application:: Compared to version 2, the `odo add binding` command does not require the application to be running on the cluster, making it even faster.
> 
> Only supports bindable Operators::
> The version 2 `odo link` command links an application to another application and any Operator-backed service. However, `odo` version 3 currently only supports connecting to services backed by Operators that are considered bindable by the Service Binding Operator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Work without a running application:: Compared to v2, the `odo add binding` command does not require the application to be running on the cluster, making it even faster.

Only supports bindable Operators::
The `odo link` command of v2 links an application to another application and any Operator-backed service. However, `odo` v3 currently only supports connecting to services backed by Operators that are considered bindable by the Service Binding Operator.
```

Requires the Service Binding Operator:: You must install the Service Binding Operator on the cluster before running the `odo add binding` command. The command relies on the Operator to provide it with a list of bindable services.

== odo deploy

The `odo deploy` command allows you to run the outerloop of your development cycle. When your application is running successfully in your local environment, you can use `odo deploy` to move it to the cluster.

== odo registry

The `odo registry` command now lists all the Devfiles available in the Devfile registries that you have added to your system.

Filtering the Devfiles:: The `odo registry` command can filter the list of Devfiles, based on a keyword by using the `--filter` flag, based on a Devfile registry by using the `--devfile-registry` flag, or based on the Devfile name by using the `--devfile` flag.

> Detailed information about the Devfiles:: The `odo registry` command can provide detailed information about all the Devfiles, when you run it with `--details` flag.

Reviewer: nit: the `--details` flag.

== odo list

The `odo list` command lists all the resources created by `odo`, including components and bindings.

Improved  information:: 

> The `odo list` command provides a better developer experience by outputting information about your application such as the mode it is running in, what tool and version is managing it, and the project type.

Reviewer: Principle of parallelism: s/what tool and version is managing it/the tool and version managing it
